ยง 2. _How to begin a Letter._


If the Letter is to be in answer to another, begin by getting out that
other letter and reading it through, in order to refresh your memory, as
to what it is you have to answer, and as to your correspondent's _present
address_ (otherwise you will be sending your letter to his regular address
in _London_, though he has been careful in writing to give you his
_Torquay_ address in full).

Next, Address and Stamp the Envelope. "What! Before writing the _Letter_?"
Most certainly. And I'll tell you what will happen if you don't. You will
go on writing till the last moment, and just in the middle of the last
sentence, you will become aware that 'time's up!' Then comes the hurried
wind-up--the wildly-scrawled signature--the hastily-fastened envelope,
which comes open in the post--the address, a mere hieroglyphic--the
horrible discovery that you've forgotten to replenish your Stamp-Case--the
frantic appeal, to every one in the house, to lend you a Stamp--the
headlong rush to the Post Office, arriving, hot and gasping, just after
the box has closed--and finally, a week afterwards, the return of the
Letter, from the Dead-Letter Office, marked "address illegible"!

Next, put your own address, _in full_, at the top of the note-sheet. It is
an aggravating thing----I speak from bitter experience----when a friend,
staying at some new address, heads his letter "Dover," simply, assuming
that you can get the rest of the address from his previous letter, which
perhaps you have destroyed.

Next, put the date _in full_. It is another aggravating thing, when you
wish, years afterwards, to arrange a series of letters, to find them dated
"Feb. 17", "Aug. 2", without any year to guide you as to which comes
first. And never, never, dear Madam (N.B. this remark is addressed to
ladies _only_: no _man_ would ever do such a thing), put "Wednesday",
simply, as the date!

"_That way madness lies._"