ยง 1. _On Stamp-Cases._


Some American writer has said "the snakes in this district may be divided
into one species--the venomous." The same principle applies here.
Postage-Stamp-Cases may be divided into one species, the "Wonderland."
Imitations of it will soon appear, no doubt: but they cannot include the
two Pictorial Surprises, which are copyright.

You don't see why I call them 'Surprises'? Well, take the Case in your
left-hand, and regard it attentively. You see Alice nursing the Duchess's
Baby? (An entirely new combination, by the way: it doesn't occur in the
book.) Now, with your right thumb and forefinger, lay hold of the little
book, and suddenly pull it out. _The Baby has turned into a Pig!_ If
_that_ doesn't surprise you, why, I suppose you wouldn't be surprised if
your own Mother-in-law suddenly turned into a Gyroscope!

This Case is _not_ intended to carry about in your pocket. Far from it.
People seldom want any other Stamps, on an emergency, than Penny-Stamps
for Letters, Sixpenny-Stamps for Telegrams, and a bit of Stamp-edging for
cut fingers (it makes capital sticking-plaster, and will stand three or
four washings, cautiously conducted): and all these are easily carried in
a purse or pocketbook. No, _this_ is meant to haunt your envelope-case, or
wherever you keep your writing-materials. What made me invent it was the
constantly wanting Stamps of other values, for foreign Letters, Parcel
Post, &c., and finding it very bothersome to get at the kind I wanted in
a hurry. Since I have possessed a "Wonderland Stamp Case", Life has been
bright and peaceful, and I have used no other. I believe the Queen's
laundress uses no other.

Each of the pockets will hold 6 stamps, comfortably. I would recommend you
to arrange the 6, before putting them in, something like a _bouquet_,
making them lean to the right and to the left alternately: thus there will
always be a free _corner_ to get hold of, so as to take them out, quickly
and easily, one by one: otherwise you will find them apt to come out two
or three at a time.

According to _my_ experience, the 5_d._, 9_d._, and 1_s._ Stamps are
hardly ever wanted, though I have constantly to replenish all the other
pockets. If your experience agrees with mine, you may find it convenient
to keep only a couple (say) of each of these 3 kinds, in the 1_s._
pocket, and to fill the other 2 pockets with extra 1_d._ stamps.