ยง 3. _How to go on with a Letter._


Here is a golden Rule to begin with. _Write legibly._ The average temper
of the human race would be perceptibly sweetened, if everybody obeyed this
Rule! A great deal of the bad writing in the world comes simply from
writing _too quickly_. Of course you reply, "I do it to save _time_". A
very good object, no doubt: but what right have you to do it at your
friend's expense? Isn't _his_ time as valuable as yours? Years ago, I used
to receive letters from a friend----and very interesting letters
too----written in one of the most atrocious hands ever invented. It
generally took me about a _week_ to read one of his letters! I used to
carry it about in my pocket, and take it out at leisure times, to puzzle
over the riddles which composed it----holding it in different positions,
and at different distances, till at last the meaning of some hopeless
scrawl would flash upon me, when I at once wrote down the English under
it; and, when several had been thus guessed, the context would help one
with the others, till at last the whole series of hieroglyphics was
deciphered. If _all_ one's friends wrote like that, Life would be entirely
spent in reading their letters!

This Rule applies, specially, to names of people or places----and _most_
specially to _foreign names_. I got a letter once, containing some Russian
names, written in the same hasty scramble in which people often write
"yours sincerely". The _context_, of course, didn't help in the least: and
one spelling was just as likely as another, so far as _I_ knew: it was
necessary to write and tell my friend that I couldn't read any of them!

My second Rule is, don't fill _more_ than a page and a half with apologies
for not having written sooner!

The best subject, to _begin_ with, is your friend's last letter. Write
with the letter open before you. Answer his questions, and make any
remarks his letter suggests. _Then_ go on to what you want to say
yourself. This arrangement is more courteous, and pleasanter for the
reader, than to fill the letter with your own invaluable remarks, and then
hastily answer your friend's questions in a postscript. Your friend is
much more likely to enjoy your wit, _after_ his own anxiety for
information has been satisfied.

In referring to anything your friend has said in his letter, it is best to
_quote the exact words_, and not to give a summary of them in _your_
words. _A's_ impression, of what _B_ has said, expressed in _A's_ words,
will never convey to _B_ the meaning of his own words.

This is specially necessary when some point has arisen as to which the two
correspondents do not quite agree. There ought to be no opening for such
writing as "You are quite mistaken in thinking I said so-and-so. It was
not in the least my meaning, &c., &c.", which tends to make a
correspondence last for a lifetime.

A few more Rules may fitly be given here, for correspondence that has
unfortunately become _controversial_.

One is, _don't repeat yourself_. When once you have said your say, fully
and clearly, on a certain point, and have failed to convince your friend,
_drop that subject_: to repeat your arguments, all over again, will simply
lead to his doing the same; and so you will go on, like a Circulating
Decimal. _Did you ever know a Circulating Decimal come to an end?_

Another Rule is, when you have written a letter that you feel may possibly
irritate your friend, however necessary you may have felt it to so express
yourself, _put it aside till the next day_. Then read it over again, and
fancy it addressed to yourself. This will often lead to your writing it
all over again, taking out a lot of the vinegar and pepper, and putting in
honey instead, and thus making a _much_ more palatable dish of it! If,
when you have done your best to write inoffensively, you still feel that
it will probably lead to further controversy, _keep a copy of it_. There
is very little use, months afterwards, in pleading "I am almost sure I
never expressed myself as you say: to the best of my recollection I said
so-and-so". _Far_ better to be able to write "I did _not_ express myself
so: these are the words I used."

My fifth Rule is, if your friend makes a severe remark, either leave it
unnoticed, or make your reply distinctly _less_ severe: and if he makes a
friendly remark, tending towards 'making up' the little difference that
has arisen between you, let your reply be distinctly _more_ friendly. If,
in picking a quarrel, each party declined to go more than _three-eighths_
of the way, and if, in making friends, each was ready to go _five-eighths_
of the way--why, there would be more reconciliations than quarrels! Which
is like the Irishman's remonstrance to his gad-about daughter--"Shure,
you're _always_ goin' out! You go out _three_ times, for _wanst_ that you
come in!"

My sixth Rule (and my last remark about controversial correspondence) is,
_don't try to have the last word_! How many a controversy would be nipped
in the bud, if each was anxious to let the _other_ have the last word!
Never mind how telling a rejoinder you leave unuttered: never mind your
friend's supposing that you are silent from lack of anything to say: let
the thing drop, as soon as it is possible without discourtesy: remember
'speech is silvern, but silence is golden'! (N.B.--If you are a gentleman,
and your friend a lady, this Rule is superfluous: _you won't get the last
word_!)

My seventh Rule is, if it should ever occur to you to write, jestingly, in
_dispraise_ of your friend, be sure you exaggerate enough to make the
jesting _obvious_: a word spoken in _jest_, but taken as _earnest_, may
lead to very serious consequences. I have known it to lead to the
breaking-off of a friendship. Suppose, for instance, you wish to remind
your friend of a sovereign you have lent him, which he has forgotten to
repay--you might quite _mean_ the words "I mention it, as you seem to have
a conveniently bad memory for debts", in jest: yet there would be nothing
to wonder at if he took offence at that way of putting it. But, suppose
you wrote "Long observation of your career, as a pickpocket and a burglar,
has convinced me that my one lingering hope, for recovering that sovereign
I lent you, is to say 'Pay up, or I'll summons yer!'" he would indeed be a
matter-of-fact friend if he took _that_ as seriously meant!

My eighth Rule. When you say, in your letter, "I enclose cheque for ยฃ5",
or "I enclose John's letter for you to see", leave off writing for a
moment--go and get the document referred to--and _put it into the
envelope_. Otherwise, you are pretty certain to find it lying about,
_after the Post has gone_!

My ninth Rule. When you get to the end of a note-sheet, and find you have
more to say, take another piece of paper--a whole sheet, or a scrap, as
the case may demand: but, whatever you do, _don't cross_! Remember the old
proverb '_Cross-writing makes cross reading_'. "The _old_ proverb?" you
say, enquiringly. "_How_ old?" Well, not so _very_ ancient, I must
confess. In fact, I'm afraid I invented it while writing this paragraph!
Still, you know, 'old' is a _comparative_ term. I think you would be
_quite_ justified in addressing a chicken, just out of the shell, as "Old
boy!", _when compared_ with another chicken, that was only half-out!